Add new Prometheus tutorials (#349)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: tutorials/tutorial-setup-timescale-prometheus.md

infrastructure?
- **Plan capacity**. You can understand how much infrastructure you will require 
to support various use cases.
- **Identify root causes**. Having long-term views of metrics enables you to 
look for correlations when outages, degradation, or other periodic mishaps occur 
in your infrastructure.

### Pre-requisites

Often, you want to separate the environments your applications and your monitoring 
run in. This tutorial will cover how to set up a monitoring system using TimescaleDB, 
Prometheus, and Grafana running in Docker containers on an Amazon Web Services 
EC2 instance. Before we setup the monitoring environment, you’ll need:

- An [AWS account][aws-signup]
- A new or existing Amazon EC2 instance. We’ll use the `t2.large` instance 
type, but you can use whatever is within your budget, including the free-tier 
eligible instances. Ensure that you store your `.pem` key safely. In this tutorial, 
we’ll use the Ubuntu Server 18.04 LTS AMI:

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/images/AWS_Ubuntu_DIYMonitoring.png" alt="Ubuntu AMI used for Monitoring setup"/>

> - An SSH connection to your Amazon EC2 instance. Learn how to setup 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An SSH connection to your Amazon EC2 instance. Learn how to set up 
```

one [here][ssl-setup-instructions]. Remember to set the correct permissions 
on your key file, you can learn more [here][ssl-setup-key-instructions] 
- Docker installed on Ubuntu. [Follow the instructions][docker-ubuntu] to install.
- An SFTP client - we’ll use [FileZilla][filezilla]. See this 
[StackOverflow post][stack-overflow-filezilla] for help on how to connect to your 
Amazon EC2 instance running Ubuntu using FileZilla. You’ll need the Public DNS 
of the server, found on the Amazon EC2 Description page. The `username` will be 
'ubuntu' and the password will be blank.
- A Prometheus metrics endpoint, for Prometheus to scrape, on the infrastructure 
you are interested in monitoring. If you are using Timescale Cloud as your 

> database, [follow the instructions to setup an endpoint for Prometheus][timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database, [follow the instructions to set up an endpoint for Prometheus][timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint]. 
```

 plpgsql       | 1.0     | pg_catalog | PL/pgSQL procedural language
 timescaledb   | 1.6.0   | public     | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
(3 rows)
```

Also ensure that your tables include `metrics_copy`, `metrics_values`, and `metrics_labels` 
by running the `\dt` command in `psql`:

```bash
             List of relations
 Schema |      Name      | Type  |  Owner   
--------+----------------+-------+----------
 public | metrics_copy   | table | postgres
 public | metrics_labels | table | postgres
 public | metrics_values | table | postgres
(3 rows)

```

### Step 3: Setup Prometheus

Now let’s set up Prometheus. Begin by configuring the `prometheus.yml` file to tell 
Prometheus to use our TimescaleDB instance with `pg_prometheus` as a remote read and 
write for Prometheus metrics. This ensures that all the metrics that are recorded into 
Prometheus are first written to the local node and then written to TimescaleDB. This 
means that all of your metrics are immediately backed up, so that any disk failure on a 
Prometheus node will be less painful.

To do this, add the following lines at the end of your prometheus configuration file, 

> assuming you’ve setup the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter from step 2 at port `9201`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assuming you’ve set up the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter from step 2 at port `9201`:
```

global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['node_exporter:9100']
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

If you’re monitoring a Timescale Cloud database instance per 
this [tutorial][timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint], you can use the following 
sample configuration file, taking care to replace `{TARGET_IP}` with the IP 
address of your Timescale cloud database and `{TARGET_PORT}` with the port that 
the endpoint is running on, as well as your `username` and `password` to authenticate 
your connection to that endpoint.

```yaml
#prometheus.yml for monitoring a timescale cloud instance
global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   scheme: https
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['{TARGET_IP}:{TARGET_PORT}']
   tls_config:
     insecure_skip_verify: true
   basic_auth:
     username: {ENDPOINT_USERNAME}
     password: {ENDPOINT_PASSWORD}
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

> Now that your Prometheus configuration file has been configured, next we use 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your Prometheus configuration file has been set, we will use 
```

FileZilla (or similar tool) to transfer your file to your Amazon EC2 instance. 
Finally, we can run the command below in order to start up Prometheus in a container 
using the configs specified in `prometheus.yml`:

```bash
sudo docker run -p 9090:9090 -v prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml prom/prometheus
```

> To check that Prometheus metrics are indeed being stored in Timescale, run the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check that Prometheus metrics are indeed being stored in TimescaleDB, run the 
```

> following command in `psql` when connected to your Timescale instance and check 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
following command in `psql` when connected to your TimescaleDB instance and check 
```
